---
layout: post
title: Animal Crossing Socks Lab
cover-img: /assets/img/animal_crossing2.jpg
tags: [Socks]
comments: true
---

**Author:** Ellen Wang

**Collaborators:** Emma Chang, Izzy Fic, Aydan Ergin, Feingold

In this lab, I used an API to obtain data about Animal Crossing Socks, and then analyzed various aspects of the sock data. 

To obtain data from the API, I used the requests.get function. The base URL and endpoint were constant, and in the payload, I included the API key to make sure that I was authorized to access the server. Then, I realized that the idx parameter only lets you access individual rows at for each time that the requests.get function is called. Therefore, created a "for" loop to iterate through every row of the index and retrieve data each time.

To determine which type of sock has the most variations, I first created a list of all the names of the socks, by iterating through each row and adding the sock name if it did not already exist in the list. Then, I also added these sock names as keys to a dictionary that would contain sock names as keys and the number of variations for that sock as a value. I realized that each time a sock of the same type comes up, the variation is different. So, I iterated through the data again, adding one to the number of variations of the type of sock that the item was.

I found that the highest number of variations for a sock name was 8, and the sock names with 8 variations were argyle crew socks, color-blocked socks, frilly knee-high socks, holey tights, kiddie socks, mixed-tweed socks, no-show socks, semi-opaque socks, semi-opaque tights, sequin leggings, simple-accent socks, striped socks, striped tights, tube socks, ultra no-show socks, vivid leggings, vivid socks, and vivid tights.

To figure out how many socks of each color there were, I followed a similar process. First, I created a list of all the possible sock colors by iterating through each sock and adding its color 1 or color 2 to the list if either one was not already in it. Next, I created a dictionary with sock colors as keys and number of socks with that color as values. Lastly, I iterated through the socks again, and I added 1 to the key value of the corresponding sock color. To account for whether or not the color 1 was the same as color 2 for a specific sock, I only added 1 to the key value for sock 2 if it was different from color 1. In the end, there were 44 pink socks, 43 red socks, 33 aqua socks, 28 orange socks, 39 purple socks, 51 green socks, 48 blue socks, 34 yellow socks, 89 white socks, 65 black socks, 16 beige socks, 33 gray socks, 11 brown socks, and 14 colorful socks.

Overall, the coding process was relatively smooth for me, with a couple of roadblocks. First, I didn't fully understand the parameters for the requests.get function at the beginning, so I was missing the index parameter. However, once I figured out what 'idx' meant, I realized that I had to loop through all the socks one by one. Also, another interesting thing that I learned while completing this lab was that the "socks.py" name calls a different file in python, which is built-in and stands for socket secure. This took me a while to figure out, but I just had to change my file name and delete the socks.py file.

There were a few ways that I could have improved my code: First, the lists that I created for sock names and color names were not used in the end, and were redundant because I also had dictionaries storing the names of the colors. I had created them simply for organizational purposes, but getting rid of them may improve the efficiency of my code. Similarly, I had coded the two tasks seperately in different for loops, but combining the loops may also make the run time shorter.
